Welcome to Excel Power
Tools for Data Analysis.
This is the third and final
course in the Specialization,
Excel Skills for Data
Analytics and Visualization.
This is where it gets really
exciting as we start using
some really powerful tools to
transform and analyze our data.
The typical data
analysis workflow
can be divided into three phases.
First, we have to get
and prepare our data,
a bit like cooking a nice meal,
where the first
stage is to source
the right ingredients and
then clean and prepare them.
The second phase is
the analysis itself,
where we slice and dice the data,
combine the right metrics,
add some imaginative seasoning
to extract the right flavors.
The final phase is to present
and share our analysis,
plate it up in an attractive
way to be consumed.
Excel's ease and
flexibility often make
it the tool of choice
for doing data analysis,
but it does have some
inherent limitations.
Whether data comes from
an external source like
a text file or database,
it has to be imported into Excel,
which can be a repetitive
and tedious process.
Often the data will
need to be cleaned,
modified, and integrated,
which again can be repetitive,
time-consuming, and
potentially error-prone.
Then, of course, truly big data
simply does not fit
in a spreadsheet,
which can only store just
over a million rows.
Over the last few years,
Microsoft had been working on
transforming the end-to-end
experience for analysts.
Excel has undergone
a major upgrade
with inclusion of Power
Query and Power Pivot.
Power Query, integrated
into the ribbon from
2016 as Get and Transform,
was designed to
help analysts with
the initial phases
of the workflow,
to fetch data from
different sources,
and then clean and
transform it for analysis.
Power Pivot is an
Excel add-in that
revolutionizes the second
phase, the actual analysis.
Power Pivot provides us with
an analytical database inside
the Excel workbook capable
of storing millions of rows.
Data tables in Power
Pivot can be linked,
meaning we no longer
need thousands
of cumbersome lookup functions.
Power Pivot introduces
a powerful modeling
language called
DAX which allows us to
perform advanced
analytics on our data.
Over the course of
the next few weeks,
we're going to get, clean, and
transform our data
with Power Query,
analyze our data with
Power Pivot in DAX,
and then in the final week,
we see how these same
technologies have been
incorporated into another
power tool called Power BI,
which we will use for
the final phase of
presenting and
sharing our analysis.
Please note that Power
Query, Power Pivot,
and Power BI desktop are
only available on the
Windows platform.
Mac users will require Boot Camp,
running Windows or
a virtual machine
with a Windows operating system.
Power Query comes standard
with 2016 onwards and
can be downloaded for
2010 and 2013 Pro Plus,
but we would recommend for
this course that you
have 2016 or later.
This week, we will introduce
you to Power Query.
We will look at how
we can use it to
get data from a range of sources,
how it can be used
to append rows from
two or more similarly
structured data sets,
and how we can use
merge queries to
combine columns from
different tables.
We have eight great videos
to guide you through the process,
and we strongly encourage
you to work along with us.
Download this week's exercise
files and let's get started.